Well as Netanyahu was speaking on Sunday.
Thousands were again
taking to the streets of Jerusalem
and other Israeli cities
calling for his resignation
and the release of all hostages in Gaza.
Now, the protests are still ongoing.
The Israeli
prime minister met
with the family
of one of the hostages on Sunday.
The father of 19 year old Naama Levi
told Israel's Army radio that they
left the meeting, quote, disturbed
and with no good news.
Nadav Salsburg from the Change
Generation Movement
is leading the Tel Aviv protests.
And he told the UK's Telegraph newspaper
on Sunday
that the protests over the weekend
were, quote, an eruption of underground
currents
that have reached the boiling point.
And he joins us now live from Jerusalem.
Great to see you, Nadav.
Thank you so much
for taking the time today.
Look, over the weekend, we saw
an eruption of anti-government
protests across many parts of Israel.
But your specific movement
is calling for something very specific.
I want you to take me through
what you and your members want.
Thank you.
So, first of all,
I want to start
by mentioning the 134 hostages still held
captive in Gaza,
including women, elderly and children.
We are fighting and praying
for their immediate release.
We are a movement
called the Change during the Nation
after October 7th.
We realized
that Netanyahu and his coalition
have no intent of taking responsibility
over the worst disaster
in Israel's history.
So we have taken to the streets
and we formed
a young movement
comprised of young Israelis,
reservists and students
with the goal
of replacing the current government
with a responsible government.
One deserving of the Israeli people.
That is our goal.
So you're calling for elections
and a change in government, essentially?
Yes,
Yeah.
We're calling for
over and above, of course, importantly
and the release of hostages,
which is important.
But you've also said
something interesting
and just reading up
about what your movement is about that,
that Netanyahu hasn't
prioritized hostages.
So what do you think he has
prioritized instead?
I think that Netanyahu has prioritized
the survival,
his own
political survival
and the survival of his coalition.
I think that while many people, including
politicians, are doing their best
to try and bring back the hostages,
it simply isn't enough.
I think that we,
as the young generation who grew up
under Netanyahu,
have witnessed rotten leadership.
And it's time for us to step up
and demand better leadership
for all Israelis.
So Netanyahu has rejected calls
for elections, saying
that it's
going to dismantle the talks
that are currently underway,
specifically for hostage release.
We also know that Hamas has said that
all hostages will be released
if there's a sustained cease fire.
So so what are your views
on the current negotiations
and importantly on a cease fire?
We believe that the
war against Hamas is a just war.
We believe that
Hamas is a threat
not only to Israelis,
but also to Palestinians.
And that Israel must triumph over Hamas.
That is why we are not calling
for a cease fire.
We believe that the war needs to be
fought until the end, but we also believe
that we should prioritize
bringing back the hostages,
even if it means pausing.
The same way.
We paused
a couple of months ago
to bring back hostages.
And we also believe
that the clearing schedule for elections
a couple of months from now
will not hurt or damage neither
the war efforts or the efforts
to bring back the hostages,
but rather allow the current government
to act without being dependent
on the politics or its own survival.
Yeah,
I mean, and of course,
families of hostages.
We've heard just harrowing stories of,
you know,
the uncertainty that they're experiencing
I want to turn now
to the UN Security Council resolution
that within
it had said
that famine is setting in in Gaza
right now.
You know,
from what we've been seeing
and Netanyahu's policies essentially
of not
allowing enough
aid into
Gaza has gotten a lot of criticism
from aid organizations.
They're describing dire realities
From your perspective,
how are you viewing this?
And does this worry
you and your members importantly?
Again, I think we are worried
for our future in Israel,
for the future of the region.
I think that what we have seen yesterday
in Jerusalem
are hundreds of thousands of patriots
going to the streets
and demanding a better future.
I think we are done
waiting for politicians
to make things better.
I think that we need to make them better
and that we, the young people in Israel,
are the generation
that will bring change to the region
and to Israel. And
and I think that where
I don't think I know
that we plan on continuing our approach
All right.
Nadav Sulzberger, great to have you on.
Thank you for taking the time.
CNN is also learning that senior US
and Israeli
officials will meet virtually
today
to discuss Israel's proposed ground
offensive in Rafah.
A US official says the two
sides are still
working towards an in-person
meeting on the issue.
Face to face
talks were abruptly called off last week
by the Israeli prime minister
after Washington
refused to block
a UN resolution
calling for a cease fire in Gaza.
Benjamin Netanyahu says US
pressure will not stop
an Israeli ground operation in Rafah.
And I hope he can.
We will go into Rafah
and eliminate Hamas battalions
there for one simple reason.
There is no victory
without entering Rafah
and there is no victory
without eliminating Hamas battalions.
There
will talks back on then.
I want to head to Washington now
and bring in CNN's Natasha Bertrand.
Natasha, I want to get into
what the US has repeatedly said
and it's warned Israel
about a siege into Rafah
in this virtual meeting aimed
at this on Yahoo!
Do you think
he's going to be able
to convince the US
that they have a workable plan?
Can the US
be convinced of a Rafah operation
Well, the answer is that
it really depends
because as of right now
the US is extremely skeptical
and they have been urging Israeli
officials, including in talks
with the Israeli defense
minister last week,
to come up with an alternative plan, one
that is not
what the Israelis have been planning,
such as a Large-Scale
Ground operation into Rafah
that could endanger the over
1 million Palestinians
that have sought shelter there
over the last few months.
And what the Israelis are saying
is that, look,
we need a way
to eliminate these
remaining Hamas battalions
and the US is responding well.
You could go after them
with a more targeted approach,
something that
targets more senior figures in Hamas
rather than going in
and doing an all out assault.
And so I think what the US is
still waiting to see from
the Israelis is
a concrete plan to move those civilians
out of the area.
And that is something
that Israel has not been able
to provide them with yet.
And until they do,
until they provide
some kind of blueprint
for how they're going
to get those people out of that area,
perhaps allowing them to move back north,
then the US is really not
going to be on board with this.
Now among the proposals
the US has given to
the Israelis
is to ramp up talks with the Egyptians
to try to seal that border
so that Israel can conduct
these more precision
operations, targeting
these senior Hamas leaders
without the possibility
that they are just going to then escape,
of course, across the border into Egypt.
Of course,
another aspect of this is,
is that really targeted
operation that the US says
that the Israelis should try
and that's something
that they have been pushing them
to do for months and months.
Instead of doing
these large scale operations
that really do endanger
the civilians, there
But the Israelis are going to do
what they're going to do.
And that is the message that we got
last week in talks with Israeli
officials, is that they are going to do
what they believe is best for
eliminating the remaining
Hamas battalions in that area.
Now, whether there are any consequences
for the Israelis ignoring
the Americans
advice, that remains to be seen
because we have seen that
the US has continued to provide them
with weapons,
with intelligence
to help them prosecute
this war against Hamas.
And so the question now
is, are there any red lines here?
If the Israelis do move forward
with this operation in Rafah,
how is the US going to respond,
especially if it's in a way that the U.S.
has explicit advised against?
Well, Ivan, it's great to have you on.
Thank you.